It's my honor to share one of my favorite books. 
The Five People You Meet in Heaven by Mitch Albom is a story about Eddie, an old man who works at an amusement park. When Eddie dies, he goes to Heaven and meets five important people who teach him lessons about life.

The Blue Man: A man who turned blue because of a medicine.
Lesson: Everything in life is connected. Even small things can make a big difference.

The Captain: Who: Eddie's leader when he was a soldier.
Lesson: Sometimes, people get hurt or give up something to help others.

Ruby: A lady who the park is named after.
Lesson: It's important to forgive people who hurt you so you can feel better.

Marguerite: Eddie's wife.
Lesson: Love never goes away, even when someone dies.

Tala: A little girl Eddie accidentally hurt a long time ago.
Lesson: Every life has a purpose, and Eddie learns that he helped people in ways he didn't know.

In the end, Eddie learns that his life was important and that he helped many people without realizing it. Have you ever imagined who we might meet in Heaven? For me, mine three people maybe 
•  Grandmother: Taught me selflessness. .無私
•  Father: After his stroke, he taught me to care for others and give, bringing our family together. 他中風後,讓我學習照顧及付出,家庭團結
•  Miss Lee: Taught me how to love children and guide them to God. 
Maybe two others, I can't imagine them. They helped me without me knowing it.

--The Five People You Meet in Heaven
The Five People You Meet In Heaven is a 2003 novel by Mitch Albom. 
It follows the life and death of a ride mechanic named Eddie (inspired by Albom's uncle[1]) 
who is killed in an amusement park accident and sent to heaven, 
where he encounters five people who had a significant impact on him while he was alive. 

On his 83rd birthday, amusement park ride mechanic Eddie is killed in an accident when a ride breaks down. During the accident, he makes a desperate attempt to save a little girl's life.

Eddie arrives in Heaven, where he meets "the Blue Man." The Blue Man explains that Eddie is about to journey through Heaven's five levels, meeting someone who has had a significant impact upon his life or someone on whom his life had a significant impact. Eddie asks why the Blue Man is his first person, and he informs Eddie that, when Eddie was very young, he caused the car accident that killed him. From this, Eddie learns his first lesson: there are no random events in life and all individuals and experiences are connected in some way.

Eddie meets his former captain from the army, who reminds Eddie of their time together as prisoners of war in a forced labor camp in the Philippines. Their group burned the camp during their escape and Eddie, while running away, remembers seeing a shadow move in one of the huts. The Captain confesses that he shot Eddie in the leg to prevent Eddie from chasing the shadow into the fire. This saved Eddie's life despite leaving him with a lifelong severe limp. Eddie then learns how the Captain died: he stepped on a land mine that would have killed all the men had he not set it off.

Eddie finds himself outside a diner, where he sees his father through a window. A well-dressed woman named Ruby appears and introduces herself to him. Ruby explains that Ruby Pier was named after her by her husband Emile, who built it in tribute to her. Ruby shows Eddie the true cause of his father's death, which is different from what he had always believed. She tells Eddie that he needs to forgive his father.
Eddie meets his late wife, Marguerite. They remember their wedding, and Marguerite teaches Eddie that love is never lost in death; it just moves on and takes a different form.

Eddie awakens to see children playing along with a riverbed. A young Filipina girl named Tala comes up to him. Tala reveals that she was the little girl from the hut that Eddie set on fire. Distraught, Eddie breaks down both cursing and asking God "why?" Tala hands him a stone and asks him to "wash" her like the other children in the river are doing to one another. Eddie is puzzled, but dips the stone in the water and starts to scrape off the injuries he had inflicted on her. Tala's wounds begin to clear until she is freed of all the scars. Eddie asks Tala if she knows if he was able to save the little girl before his death. Tala tells him he did manage to push her out of the way. In this way, Tala explains, he also managed to atone every day for her unnecessary death.
In the end, it shows that Eddie's Heaven is the Stardust Band Shell, where he met Marguerite.
可曾想像過，在天堂我們會遇見誰？也許是上帝，或許就是……
 
艾迪是「露比碼頭」遊樂園的維修老工頭，他生命中大多數時間就在此度過了，但是艾迪一直認為他就是被酗酒又殘暴的父親及自己的瘸腿而困綁在「露比碼頭」，他這一生是一文不值又失敗的。就在艾迪83歲生日這一天，他為了救一個小女孩卻意外喪命，他上了天堂。
在天堂裡，艾迪先後遇見在他生命裡的重要意義的五個人，這五個人逐一對他演示自己與艾迪生命交會的故事與意義，也分別傳達了生命與死亡、犧牲、寬恕、愛及活著的意義等觀念。

◎天堂遇見的第一個人－藍膚人
幼時的艾迪無意間引發一場車禍，而導致藍膚人的死亡，但是艾迪卻渾然不知。那位藍膚人雖然只是艾迪生命中的一個陌生人，卻帶給他活下的機會。藍膚人傳達了一些觀念：
1.「人啊，常常輕視自己出生的地方，可是在最不可能的角落理卻有可能發現天堂。」
2.「我們每個人在你的生命裡都有一個存在的理由，而這正就是天堂。天堂，是為了讓你認識你在人間的一生。」
3.「陌生人，是你遲早會認識的家人。」

◎天堂遇見的第二個人－小隊長
青年時艾迪在菲律賓參戰被俘虜，卻在脫逃的前一刻艾迪突然崩潰發瘋了，不得已小隊長射傷艾迪左膝以迫使他冷靜。當艾迪得知這個使他腿瘸了一輩子的真兇時，暴怒不已，直到小隊長點醒了他，使艾迪轉而原諒並感謝他所做的一切。小隊長傳達了觀念如下：1.「你犧牲過，我犧牲過，我們都曾經做過犧牲，但你對於自己的犧牲感到憤怒。你一直在想自己失去了什麼。」2.「有時候，你犧牲了某個珍貴的東西，並不代表你真的失去它，你只不過是把它傳遞給了另一個人。」

◎天堂遇見的第三個人－露比夫人
露比夫人－艾迪與他父親工作一生的「露比碼頭」遊樂園，便是因她而創建。露比與艾迪的生命從未交集卻又環環相扣著。因為艾迪與父親的緊張關係，父子間多年不曾說話，露比讓艾迪真正了解酗酒又暴躁的父親，其實是重情重義的人，艾迪因而學會了寬恕。露比傳達的觀念是：　1.「想獲得平靜，你必須先跟自己和解。」
2.「心中留著憤怒，對人是有害處的，憤怒會侵蝕你的內心。我們以為怨恨是一項武器，可以用來攻擊那些傷害過我們的人。可是，仇恨是一把彎曲的刀；我們造成了傷害，其實是傷了自己。」

◎天堂遇見的第四個人－瑪格麗特
瑪格麗特－他早逝的鍾愛的妻子，傳達了「愛」的觀念：「失去的愛仍然是愛，只不過形式不一樣了。...那是記憶。記憶變成你的伴侶，你灌溉它，你擁有它，你與記憶共舞。」「人生總會結束。愛，沒有終點。」

◎天堂遇見的第五個人－塔拉
塔拉是艾迪在菲律賓戰場被俘虜逃亡時，無意間被他放火燒死的小女孩，那是伴隨艾迪一生最深最黑的夢魘！但也是她牽引艾迪來到天堂，讓艾迪用愛與懺悔為她洗去一身火炙的傷痛，也讓艾迪得到心靈無限的平靜與安祥。她傳達了活著的意義：
小女孩指著他制服上的字樣『艾迪．維修先生』說：「你修理遊樂器材，保護了小孩的安全，那裡就是你應該存在的地方」艾迪逐漸覺悟：原來，自己的生命裡一直都有別人的生命；而別人的故事與自己的故事，會在最無法預知的時空中產生交集，而每個人的存在都是代表著一種意義的。在我們生命中所遇見的每一個人，都有可能就是我們的生命導師，不論是好人、壞人、愛人、仇人……，他們都是在淬煉著我們生命本質的深厚度以及寬廣度。而我們的每一個人的存在，也都同時被賦與引導他人認識真善美的任務。生命的旅程有人上車也有人下車，何時到站我們不能預知，但是知道我們此生此時此刻都是有重要意義的因緣。
